# Diverge: Illuminating all possible paths

Phase two of the design sprint is about generating insights and solution
concepts. Our goal is to explore as many possibilities as possible, regardless
of how realistic, feasible or viable they may or may not be. 

From this explosion of opportunity comes insights made when considering the
implications of radically different perspectives on and approaches to solving a
problem. These insights can become valuable differentiating forces and the
source of unique solution inspiration. Also, once we begin eliminating as many
of these options as possible we are given reason to be more confident in the
options we do move forward with because we have explored so many alternatives.

## Objectives for Diverge

Constantly ask "How might we?"

### Activities for Diverge

#### [Mind Mapping](../Exercises/mind-mapping.md)

#### [Crazy Eights](../Exercises/crazy-eights.md)

Crazy Eights work really well for coming up with a lot of varied  ideas or
iterative ideas on an interface.

#### [Story Boards](../Exercises/storyboards.md)

#### [Silent Critique](../Exercises/silent-critique.md)

#### [Group Critique](../Exercises/group-critique.md)

### [3-12-3](../Exercises/3-12-3.md)

## Example Schedule for Diverge

### Intro to Day 2: Diverge *(5min)*

Day two of the design sprint is about generating insights and solution concepts.
Our goal is to explore as many possibilities as possible, regardless of how
realistic, feasible or viable they may or may not be. From this explosion of
opportunity comes insights made when considering the implications of radically
different perspectives on and approaches to solving a problem. These insights
can become valuable differentiating forces and the source of unique solution
inspiration. Also, once we begin eliminating as many of these options as
possible we are given reason to be more confident in the options we do move
forward with because we have explored so many alternatives.

#### Guidelines

Everyone participates, you don’t need to be an artist (I’m not!) to sketch and
visualize your ideas. No ideas are to wild!

#### Pitch Practice (10min)

#### Recap Day 1, identify biggest risks, determine goals for the prototype (45min)**

#### Identify and diagram the critical path for the prototype (45min)

Write down the user story that is most important for this sprint or that best
addresses our most blocking/risky assumptions/knowledge gaps. (Write the story
as if you were the ‘user’). Diagram the critical path, and break it into pieces
if necessary for the purpose of the iteration exercises. 

#### Mind Map *(15min)*

Create a "cheat sheet" of notes to use in later ideation exercises.

#### [Crazy Eights](../Exersises/crazy-eights.md) *(5min)*

#### Storyboard (20min)

#### Silent critique (10min)

#### 3min critiques (3-5min each person)

### Part 3 (2hrs):

Repeat Part 2 for the same user story or a different segment of
the same story.

#### Daily Recap (30min)

Consolidate notes and write daily summary.

### What’s the goal of the prototype?

[Explain the core purpose of the prototype, the assumptions we are trying to
validate/invalidate or the knowledge gaps we are trying to fill.

Example: “Before couples can address the details of planning a wedding
(decoration, guests, caterers, dress, etc.), couples usually have to decide on a
location and venue. The couple is filled with excitement; as the wedding day
will usher forth a new life for the couple together. However, the couple might
experience a bit of uncertainty as to how even to proceed planning their
wedding. We want to capture couples at their “excitement” period and put aside
all uncertainty and potential anxiety that the wedding planning process may
cause. A customer’s initial engagement with our website should parallel his/her
engagement with the wedding process in general.

With our prototype, we want to evaluate our ability to capture the excitement of
a recently engaged person and leverage that excitement to create engagement with
our website.”
